As with Kafka topics,
Kafka producers offer extensive configuration options.
We're not going to cover all of these options exhaustively in this course,
but I'd like to highlight a few you should be aware of.
First, all producers should provide a client ID setting.
This setting is not required,
but it's very useful for debugging producer and broker issues.
The ID that you provide will show up in the Kafka logs.
So if there's some kind of an issue,
you can try to correlate the client ID of your application to what's in your Kafka logs.
It can also be used to manage limits on the producer.
Retries are another important setting.
Producers will typically allow you to configure
how many retries you would like them to attempt before they mark a message as failed.
So what this means is,
if you send a message and a message doesn't make it to the broker,
the client library that you're using will automatically retry to send that message.
Also make sure to set enable idempotence.
If you turn on retries and ordering guarantees matter to you,
otherwise your messages may become out of order.
Kafka producers may also opt to set compression on messages
themselves separately from what the Kafka topic is configured to use.
So I know that sounds confusing, but yes,
you can configure compression on both the topic itself and on your Kafka producer.
The same compression options are typically present on the producer as on the broker.
The rest will depend on your client library.
Again, to quickly review those options,
Gzip, Snappy, LZ4 and ZSTD.
If you choose to compress with the producer,
compression is going to occur on the client machine and not on the broker.
If you set the compression on the broker or the topic configuration,
the messages will be compressed on the broker.
Now, here's the thing, what if you set
the compression setting on both a producer and on the topic?
Well, you're going to compress in two places.
If you set the, say the compression type to LZ4 on your producer
and the compression type to snappy or Gzip on the broker,
you'll compress once on the client and LZ4,
send it to the broker.
Then once it's reached the broker,
the broker will decompress the message and then re-compress it into Gzip or Snappy.
So what's it's important to keep in mind here is that if you have the compression
setting in two places and the settings don't match,
the broker is going to uncompressed and re-compress your message.
So be careful that you're not setting this to
a different compression setting and that if you want to change at the topic level,
that you change it there.
In other words, the topic compression setting always takes
precedence over the producer configuration.
Finally, in the previous section,
we learned what an in-sync replica or ISR was.
This is a broker replica that is up to date with
the broker leader for a given topic partition.
We learned the number of in-sync replicas could be the
same or less than the number of total replicas.
There was another piece to this equation which when we mentioned before,
but we have not yet discussed in detail.
The producer acts or acknowledgment setting.
Kafka producers get to determine how many replicas must
acknowledge the message before they move on to the next message.
This number does not have to equal the ISR number.
For example, I may have five replicas in a topic ISR setting of three,
but the producer could send its ISR into two.
This means the producer is only going to wait until
two replicas have acknowledged the message to proceed,
not the full three that the ISR was set to.
Why would you want this and when would this even be useful?
Well, the setting provides the producers some flexibility in determining
how many brokers need to have actually received the message before it moves on.
The Kafka cluster will still ensure that the other replicas are in sync,
it just won't block the producer client while it does that.
This is an important performance feature for some high-throughput applications.
With that being said, I do recommend that you default the ISR
setting to all or its equivalent negative one,
unless you have a good reason not to.
As many things in software engineering,
it's better to introduce complexity as needed and not pre-optimize.
If your producer performance begins to lag,
this is a place to investigate.